Thanks, everybody, for joining today. We're going to talk about data science in meatspace.
I have a couple of objectives with this talk. I want to share, for anyone that's interested
in doing data science in meatspace, that it's incredibly rewarding if it's your niche.
Niches are filters, but that's a good thing. If it's what you're into, it's going to be
a heck of a lot of fun. And for those who are already doing work in this space, I want
to share some of my experiences. Maybe it'll be helpful for you. Maybe we can talk more
outside of this. And I think, honestly, a lot of this stuff is pretty universal. Similar
workflows and paradigms apply, whether you're doing data science in meatspace or elsewhere.
So maybe it'll still be interesting if you're just hanging out for the next talk. I don't
know what the bird thing is about, but people put them on their slides, so I did that.
Cool. So what is meatspace? It's the opposite of cyberspace. So it's the physical world.
It's a really weird term. There's some confusion on the internet about where it came from.
It's this word that's the opposite of a concept that it predates. I don't know. But that's
not what the talk's about. It's physical world. So I know what you're thinking. How am I going
to run my Spark job on the abacus? But that's not quite the deal. So I'm going to talk a
little bit, for a couple slides, just about what my background is to give you sort of
a bit of flavor of the type of work that I'm doing when I talk about meatspace.
So I worked at Tesla for a bunch of years. I worked on all of these vehicle programs.
We did some other programs with Toyota and Daimler. We also made some batteries. Lots
of things. And what I was working on there specifically was around manufacturing for
the battery. So Sean Lopp specifically asked for a slide with gratuitous robots on it.
So this is a Tesla manufacturing facility. This isn't battery. That part's too secret.
This is some robots that are building the car, doing body assembly. So what is the type
of work that you're doing as a data scientist in a manufacturing place like Tesla? So some
of the work involves setting test limits for quality control, right? Looking at empirical
data, figuring out what the right places are to draw some test lines. Doing optimization.
So there's process parameters, knobs, dials, levers. There's not actually any levers.
But you have to optimize this process and put the right parameters in the process to
make it work really efficiently to reduce costs or improve yields. A lot of the things
we worked on were vision systems. Sometimes it was for measurement. There's some cool
cases where we would take a part, image it, find locations of specific components, and
then you could feed that back to a robot that was doing the process. And it would basically
do like a bespoke or tailored process that was aware of the specific orientation, configuration,
dimensions, things like that of the part that it was working on. We also did a lot of vision
systems to do defect detection. Now what I do is like what's more fun than robots assembling
inanimate objects? Well, it's robots that assemble plants. And it's interesting. It's
very similar in a lot of ways. I still kind of think of it as a manufacturing role. But
instead of, yeah, assembling inanimate objects, it's sort of life support in combination with
all the same automation equipment and robots. So I work at this company called Plenty. We're
based in South San Francisco. And what we do is we grow plants indoors. And we do kind
of the same types of work. So there's a lot of work defining test limits. But it's unique
here because we're doing phenotyping as well, right? So you and your sibling are both human
beings and that's good. But you look different, right? And you have different morphologies.
And so we need to capture those things in this context. And we still have limits and
controls around that. We still have the same concept of optimizing our process parameters.
But it's really about modeling plant growth and figuring out in this controlled environment
agriculture how can we give it the right inputs to maximize growth and flavor and things like
that. We also have a lot of vision systems for the same types of things. And there's
some unique stuff, too, like I said about modeling plant growth. It's kind of like a
longitudinal set of data that we have. We have a cohort of plants that we're growing
and we track them over time. So a lot of that stuff I think is similar to what some other
folks here do. Looking at pathogens and trying to monitor those, check the load that we have
on the systems and control that. And I mean, just generally, like, it's really cool. That's
an actual picture from a farm in South San Francisco. So anyway, that's some context
on the stuff that I've been doing in the meat space.
So is it actually different? Well, here's a couple slides that I took, pictures I took
this morning. This is the escalator that's right outside this door. And it's broken.
That's a thing in meat space. This is a picture from my window in the hotel. Does anyone guess
what's happening in this picture? Yeah, they're filling in the tiles that are not on the wall
anymore. So presumably they fell to the sidewalk below. That's kind of terrifying. But yeah,
those are some of the challenges that come from the meat space. So systems age and degrade
and their behaviors change over time. They fall to the sidewalk. Data isn't the default.
So I'm pretty positive that this hotel doesn't have any telemetry coming off of their escalator
to know that it's broken. Instrumentation is really costly. It's not because people
are irrational. It's a rational decision. It's costly to put sensors out there. All
measurement systems have error. You don't know what's in your environment. You can't
list it out. You can't restart it. Listening to Jenny's talk this morning, a lot of the
debugging techniques that she described just aren't possible in a physical world. Dev and
staging environments, you can't copy and paste. Consequently there's no version control. There's
a huge variety in data structures. You can't make reprex. And there's bugs. Like literal
bugs. So this is a picture from I guess I think Grace Hopper got the bug to be in the
computer science world because they found a moth in their machine. I think everyone
thinks of that and they're like, oh, yeah, olden times, how quaint. I personally have
been responsible for automation equipment that stopped working properly because it impaled
a bug. So this is like still a thing and it's like a part of the real world. And so one
of the things that I think is really critical is that the data scientists when they're working
in this space, they really have a responsibility to go and see. And there's this concept that
comes from the Toyota production system, which I'm sure is not pronounced correctly, but
that's this concept of going to where the work is taking place, being a part of it, seeing
it. And so what does this all mean? We're all familiar with this data science workflow
that comes from R for data science. And now that you have some context about some of the
bugs and tiles that fall in the world, let's see what a workflow might look like. So first
the R for data science starts with first you must import your data into R. I just really
haven't ever come into a production space and people are like, yeah, here's the data.
You have to go get it in conjunction with someone else usually. So yeah, generally it
doesn't exist there. And not only do you have to get the data, but you want to make good
data, right? That's actually going to be useful. So there's kind of a addition, an
add-on that gets you a pipeline to get started. So this is kind of a call to action that if
you're working in this space, I think you're really going to find a great deal more success,
a lot more value to whatever business that you're working in. If you can partner with
the people that are responsible for the equipment or the production space or whatever it is
that's happening in meatspace and work with them to make sure you're getting good data in.
Because usually that's not their domain, that's not their responsibility. They're doing it
because someone told them they had to. But if you partner with them, they want to do the
right thing, they want to add value. So it requires partnership. And I'm not going to talk
about the persist side of this. I'm just going to say please don't make your own database.
Okay. So say that someone comes to you and says, hey, Ben O'Keene. They're probably not
going to say that because it's a globally unique first name. But if they come to you
and say, hey, I'm going to go deploy this camera or something like that, will you please
work on an image processing pipeline for me? You should stop them and say, no, no, no,
first we have to prototype. So, yeah, we're going to talk about that quickly. So prototype.
So however much you get paid per hour, which the previous presenter described, you can
look across the country. Whatever that is times your estimate for how long this project
is going to take times two if you're good at estimating and you're wrong or like 20 if you're
not good at it. Plus the opportunity cost of this project being a total flop is definitely
more than the cost of a GoPro. So you should prototype it. And maybe your GoPro is not
your thing and you need a thermocouple or this is a handheld ultrasound that connects
to your iPhone. Didn't know that was a thing. I don't know what this is at all. But whatever
it is, it's like definitely, definitely going to be cheaper than going down some path that
isn't really possible. And when you do prototype, you get to build some intuition for how solvable
this problem is going to be. Which is really important. This is I don't know where I first
heard this, but I searched and it turns out that someone referenced a Ph.D. physicist
saying if you never miss a flight, you're spending too much time in the airport. Which
I think is great. And I totally miss flights sometimes. So what I'm getting at here is
like, yeah, again, having intuition about how solvable your project is going to be is
really important. You should make a conscious decision that the thing that you're about
to embark on is speculative. It might not pan out. That's the right decision for you
and your team and your business and all of that. And depending on what you're doing,
what your context is, you might err on the side of projects that are actually going to
be solvable. But I'll leave that to you. So cool. So you prototype this thing. You're
going to go for it. You want to kick off. You're going to need to have some instrumentation.
And you want to be thoughtful about that. So instrumenting probably isn't driven by
you. Generally. I think maybe exclusively. You're going to have somebody that you're
going to partner with that's responsible for physical components. Definitely go with some
industrial instrumentation. It can be really expensive, but it's totally worth the cost.
Raspberry pies are cool, but they don't work that well when they're filled with water.
So, yeah. Don't do that. Integration costs often dominate projects. So if you're going
to have to deploy new types of sensors or instrumentation in the future, try to think
about that. Pick a platform that is going to be scalable appropriately with the work
that you can anticipate. And always remember that measurement systems have to capture the
signal that you're going to use. I've totally seen this happen many times. Someone gets
a sensor, they plug it in, yay, now let's measure whatever it is and we're going to
control on it. But the resolution of that sensor just doesn't include the signal that
you actually need. And hopefully we'll figure that out from prototyping.
So just because you found gold in dirt doesn't mean you can turn dirt into gold. My friend
and colleague Will Bishop says this. Yeah, sounds like he's around. You're not an alchemist.
You're not a magician. So, yeah. So keep that in mind. And make sure that you communicate
that to other people. Because lots of people think that you are a magician or an alchemist.
So here's a really cool example of us doing this really successfully. So imagine that
you want to take a measurement from the bottom of the plant to the first leaf on the shoot.
And that that process, I mean, typically, again, the default is that there's not instrumentation
out there. So someone is physically holding that plant and physically taking a measurement
device to it. And then they maybe, like, type it down or something like that. So something
we've done that's been really successful is, okay, cool, somebody wants to move that into
digital space. So we're going to take a picture of the plant. And then we get the person to
take that measurement from the picture. And what that does is it means you have to align
the resolution necessary for that person to then do the task has to be in the picture
in order for them to execute on that successfully. And so that can be a good paradigm to do that.
And I think there's similar parallels in other applications as well.
So calibration. Calibration is also really critical. So let's talk about that quickly.
There's tons and tons of great content in the world about this. But you want to quantify
your measurement system error. Every measurement system has error. You have no clue. Like,
if you wanted to characterize the room temperatures, the temperatures in this room, whatever device
you're going to use is going to have error. You need to understand what that is and what
the caveats are. I would consider using a derived metric. So, yeah, again, let's take
the temperature in this room. It has some set point, right? There's a thermostat here
somewhere that's trying to achieve a specific temperature. If you wanted to have an alert
be thrown on the HVAC system performing out of spec, don't set that limit on the actual
temperature. Set it as a margin on the set point. So, again, there's lots and lots of
great content in the world about that. And then consider having a standard data model
for your data. If you work with a lot of temperature data, you might want to have your own standard
system or structure for that data so that different instrumentation approaches you take,
different suppliers, you can merge all of that stuff and plug it into a constant approach,
which you then can work on sort of agnostic of how you got that data to begin with.
And if you do all these things, I think there's an opportunity to create a virtuous cycle,
right, where you're then collecting good data in the meat space. You're able to put it into
a database that you didn't create. And then you import that stuff. You go through your
data science workflow. You build understanding. And then that has the ability to feed back
into additional instrumentation and changes that might be made out in the real world.
And, yeah, I want to thank my team. I've worked with a bunch of really tremendous people.
Will, Derek, Dana, who just gave a talk on scales, so you missed it, but you should definitely
watch it. Chris, Sasha, Nico, Nate, and my wife, Corey. Thanks.
Thanks, Ben-Joaquin. We have a few questions queued up for you. Can you give an example
of some of your work going through the whole meat space plus data science workflow at your company?
Yeah, sure. Yeah. So a good example would be we have a piece of automation equipment
at the current company where it's actually super cool. What it does is it has a drum.
So imagine a cylinder that has a bunch of holes on it. And those holes, we draw a vacuum
on a chamber that those holes are attached to. And then we rotate the drum over a bed
of seeds, and the vacuum then sucks up seeds onto it. And as it rotates, it then drops
the vacuum, and the seeds fall onto a tray. And so someone wanted to have us come up with
a vision system that would allow us to detect the success of sucking those seeds up onto
the drum. And we said, yeah, sure, that sounds like a cool idea, but please go take a GoPro
and stick it out there and tell me if you can actually do that yourself. And what we
got into there was that they hadn't thought about the fact that they actually cared a
lot about the quantity of seeds that it sucked up. And what we were actually able to do,
what the human was able to do with that video, was just to see if there was a presence or
absence. But if you had two seeds or three seeds, it was actually incredibly difficult
to tell the difference. And so we learned a lot there and were able to restructure the
project based on that understanding.
That's really cool. Thank you. Oftentimes our coders aren't brought into the conversation
early enough, i.e. after instrumentation is decided, et cetera. Any advice on how to approach
that situation?
Yeah. I think my advice there would be to try to build those relationships. I definitely
have lived that time and time again. I think it's often a secondary thought that you're
going to then have some machine learning, AI-driven manufacturing facility. And so it's
not a part of the conversation like this person's pointing out in the design phases. But I think
the best practice there is to keep working with those people. They're trying to do the
best that they can. They probably don't have a good understanding of what's possible. That's
a big thing that we do, is we try to bring a solution space that the rest of the organization
just isn't aware of, isn't thinking about, and bring that into the meat space, into the
world that they're trying to design and build. And yeah, I think you can iterate through
that and make it clear that if we want to have the types of whiz-bang things that people
want, it needs to be designed in and thought about at the beginning phase.
Thank you. Eduardo, if you don't mind coming up, we'll take one more question while you
set up. How do you switch to a career in meat space if your background is all in tech slash
virtual spaces?
Well, you can talk to me because we're hiring, especially if you're interested in computer
vision. I think that the reality is that there's, we were talking today, there was a bird of
feathers for manufacturing folks. And they're just, there's not a great community out there.
So maybe we need to build that up. There's a number of companies that do things like
manufacturing. That's where I have the most experience. I think that bird could help me
help you if you tell it or something. I'm not sure how it works, but try that. And maybe
it can help them.
Fantastic. Thank you, Ben Joaquin.